KEY(1)		          BSD General Commands Manual                           KEY(1)

NAME
     key -- save key/value pairs by key in file

SYNOPSIS
     key {-s | -g}[-hknoqpv] file key
     key -nkvp file

DESCRIPTION
     This utility takes a key from the argument list and a value of
     stdin and stores them as a key/value pair into a file according
     to the options supplied.  If file does not exist then it is
     created and maximum key size, value size, and maximum number of
     pairs that can be saved.  This information is saved in the file
     when the file is created.  If the file already exists then values
     provided for -k, -p, and -v options have no effect and neither do
     the default values for these parameters instead the values are
     read from the file.  Unused keys supplied to the key command are
     ignored.

     -g     Get the value associated with the given key from the file.  The key
            is truncated to the maximum size specified by the -k option.

     -h     Print the usage message.

     -k NUM Set the maximum size of a key in characters.   The default is 32.
            Keys will be truncated to this length before use.

     -n     Display the maximum number of key/value pairs spaces available, 
            the maximum size of a key, and the maximum size of a value.  
            The values are reported after all other actions have been taken.

     -o     Set no overwrite mode.  Key value pairs are normally allowed to 
            overwrite previous key/value pairs with matching keys.   This option
            prevents overwriting from occurring.

     -p NUM Set the maximum number of key/value pairs able to be stored at once.
            The default is 331.

     -q     Quiet mode.  Error messages of trying to overwrite in no-overwrite mode
            and reading a value associated with a key that is not in the file
            are not displayed.

     -s     Save the key/value in the file.

     -v NUM Set the maximum size of a value in characters.  Values will be 
            truncated to this length before storage.  The default is 64.

EXIT STATUS
     The key utility exits 0 on success, and 1 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     The command:

        key -k 50 -v 1000 -p 1031 poetry
   
     creates a key/value file.

        key -n poetry

     returns information about the key/value file.

        cat Shakespeare/sonnetX | key -s  poetry "Shakespeare's Tenth Sonnet"

     saves the sonnet in the poetry file.   While this:

        key -g poetry "Shakespeare's Tenth Sonnet"

     retrieves the sonnet.


SEE ALSO

STANDARDS

